[自动生成的转录文字。可能已进行编辑以提高清晰度。]
Okay. Uh. Welcome to the, uh, exam preparation session for the generative AI course.

This module covers the cutting edge landscape of the deep generative modelling.

Today we will review the core architectures on the mathematical foundations you are needed to master for the upcoming, uh, assessment.

Uh, after this course, we will have, uh, you might talk, uh, if you have some friend in this class.

Try to send them a message to come.

It is usually, uh, more friendly to have more students in the classroom when we have, uh, guest or, uh, guest to talk.

Yeah. If you have some connection with your classmates, send a message and ask them to come.

Uh, after one hour. Yeah. Thank you. Uh.

Today for this course we will discuss.

I will introduce what were included in the exam.

And, uh. Uh, this is very important.

And, uh, it is not a maybe it is uh, uh, the exam, maybe a little bit, uh,

come to get to finish it within 90 minutes because, uh, there are on the six questions.

So every question are on the 1 or 1.5 minutes.

So, uh, in this way, we can ensure the final, uh, score distributed, you know, causing this, uh, uh, the exam, uh, include us three questions.

The first section of the exam consists of a single choice of questions divided into four subparts.

We will cover, uh, text generation focusing on tokenization, be catching, uh, audio generation,

including inspect spectrograms and, uh, voice cloning and 3D generation covering Nerf and Gaussian splatting.

And finally a video generation which emphasises optical flow and, uh, temporal consistency.

So for the first part it is uh, 20 single choice questions.

And uh, it's not we cannot spend too much time here, maybe around, uh, 10 to 20 minutes.

We need to finish the first part. It is very easy, but, uh uh.

Try to, uh, check the formulas.

Right. Especially related to tokenization.

Teach your first thing. And there are some some, uh, topics just here.

Uh, so I compressed the seven, seven slides into one slide, and, uh, uh, most of the exam, uh, questions are from this,

uh, five maybe are on the 70 to 80 and another 20 to the from and from all sevens, uh, slides.

So if you have more time, you are, uh, check all of the, uh, cost material.

And, uh, if you are busy preparing for other courses, uh, you can only check this slide.

Yeah. Uh, this is the first part three, uh, four part of, uh, uh, single questions.

And the second part is the basics of, uh, generate two models and the viewer delves into the foundation.

Foundational, uh, deep learning mechanics. Mechanics.

The majority of the marks here, uh, are on the half of the questions, uh, related to transformer and attention.

Uh, you will also be tested on softmax classifiers and, uh, cross entropy gradients and the special, uh,

calculations of a convolutional neural networks, and then the parameter efficient, say, of, uh, low rank adaptation, uh, or.

Laura. Yeah. So here, uh, the question is the in the format of okay, there is, uh, one, uh,

one sentence to give the question and then, uh, you can spend around the 1 to 3 minutes to answer each question.

Do not spend too much time on, uh, individual question if you cannot, uh, do not know the answer, uh, because, uh, uh.

It is okay to skip some of that question.

Yeah, there are some questions designed for, uh, the Senate to get, uh, 90% of the score.

Uh, the final section evaluates the high level generative frameworks.

So, uh, mechanical, uh, derivations, uh, we will cover, uh, the topic of a very Gan diffusion.

Uh, we were focussed heavily on, uh, care divergence and it's Gaussian specific calculations.

And uh, it will also need to be prepared a for uh, derived uh, evidence, uh, lower bound for very um.

I remember. You can bring, uh, A4, uh, paper.

Try to include something. You know, if, uh, you know, something, uh, informative in, uh, A4 paper, explain the, uh,

minimax objectives of against and understand of the Markov chains that defines, uh, forward a process in different models.

Yeah. So, uh, the third part, uh, we will cover those, uh, topics and, uh, also, uh, QA question, uh,

one sentence of question and your answer, you'll have one line sometimes for the, uh, prove the evidence for a lower bound.

Maybe you need a, uh, three lines or four lines of, uh, space for the answer.

So if you skip. The is the question.

Try to. Uh, put in a special.

And, uh, uh, because the exam paper has been submitted.

There's no chance to change anything. So what I can do is, uh, give you a suggestion.

How do you, uh, manage to answer 65 question within 90 minutes?

So, uh, effective, uh, time management is crucial for this exam.

You the, um, for, uh, Ravi, the peace of, uh, around the one minute to one question for section one.

And, uh, save more time for the third, uh, calculations in section two on the multi-step, uh, proofs required for section three.

Uh, and remember the, uh, explicit, uh, instructions do not, uh uh, evaluate, uh uh,

log numerically and, uh, leave space after and attach these to give uh, second pass.

So my suggestion is, uh, go quickly and start from the first question to the last question.

And if you have cannot um, remember or do not know how to answer a specific question just to leave a space there and escape.

And, uh, yeah, this way I think you can easily get the on the 60 to 73.

Yeah. Um, okay, let's, uh, give a quick, uh uh uh uh uh, review, uh uh, check of what we learned, uh, during our generative art course.

Uh, generative modelling is about estimating and sampling from a data distribution G here, a given, uh,

training dataset where Z is something from, uh, P, our goal is to develop a model, uh, p theta that can perform two primary tasks.

Uh, then the, uh, density estimation where we input x to get the,

the probability and the sampling where the model generates a new original output x prime.

Uh, this, uh. And the primary tour for mayor of this distance is divergence for, uh, discrete, uh, discrete distribution.

It is the sum of the target, the probability multiplied by the log ratio of the target to the upper case of meshing.

Uh, crucially, how divergence is, uh, now symmetric.

That means the distance chance depend on which distribution is a reference.

And it's always non-negative. So carrier divergence will be included in the exam.

And uh, uh, keep in mind of uh keep proper uh properties and uh, there will be some calculation.

Not exactly this number do not need to, to, uh, write down this number in the first.

So, uh, we were calculated, uh, chiral divergence.

The most important thing is the carrier divergence is, uh, latitude.

Uh, uh, reference distribution. So, uh, what we need, uh, is not calculated the log value, but, uh.

Member to understand which is the reference distribution.

So, uh, here is the example.

You can either check and the. We were not to spend too much time here.

And for divergence. As we can see, uh, when we select the fare relative to highest, the, uh, the average value is 0.1438.

And if we swap the, uh, reference and, uh.

Results tend to their point.

The uh one straight away during the exam do not need to calculate this number, just the need to write to the initial format or just the,

uh, slightly change the format, uh, to change the, uh, uh, simple, uh, just have a simple comprehension.

Um, for the result. We know that the only way and, uh, two distributions are same.

Uh, the, uh, carrier divergence, uh, approach zero and the other, uh, large row and uh, carrier divergence is not a symmetric.

That means that, uh, if we swap the difference, do you see the results changed?

So, uh, this is, uh, important accomplishing in the second the second part of the exam.

Uh, try to understand, uh, what is the divergence?

What's the proper properties of a carrier divergence? And, uh, how to calculate it is, uh, not complicated from, uh, my view.

But if you do not spend the time to, to to understand this, it will be able to be the challenge.

And then, uh, returning to our modelling pipeline, we can now define the training or more process.

And we aim to make the model distribution to similar to the theta distribution P, by minimising the carrier divergence between them.

This uh, mathematical objective guys uh training algorithm as it to process the training data set.

It is important that you recognise that, uh, minimising, um, carrier divergence is,

uh, approximate, equivalent to performing maximum likelihood estimation.

And uh, by adjusting uh, theta to maximise the likelihood of the training data under our model, uh,

the, uh, effectively forcing the model's distribution to, uh, be similar to the true data distribution.

Uh, deep generative models. Uh, sits at the intersection, uh, of, uh, traditional generative, uh, model modelling and the deep learning, uh,

where standard uh, generative, uh, uh, modelling might use, uh, Gaussian mixture or deep learning may not focus on this.

Uh, Matt, only focus on the, uh, simple, uh, classification and uh,

generative AI use deep neural networks to handle complex tasks like autoregressive rate generation, V gang and diffusion.

And, uh, these are the main focus of our generative course.

And, uh, generative models are broadly categorised by how they handle probability density.

The explicit the density models can be further, uh, divided into, uh,

exotic density models like autoregressive activities and normalising flow and uh.

Uh. Approximator density models like a V and the diffusion.

And we also have uh.

Um, implicit density models, uh, such as the Gans which generate the data without the, uh, ever defined, uh, explicit probability function.

And then, um. Um, to begin with our, uh, uh, questions, um.

Uh, in question two, uh, we look at the class, uh, softmax classifier.

Uh, in question two, we have, uh, some calculation, uh, related to softmax.

Uh, the softmax, uh, allows us to interpret, uh, raw classifier scores here or, uh, logits, uh, normalise the probability for a given class.

The probability is, uh, exponential with its score divided by the sum of the exponential for all classes.

We then calculate the cross entropy loss by taking the negative log of the, uh probability assigned to the correct class.

So. Um, for example, if my question is we have the normalise the probability here.

We have the conscious level. What is the loss for the, uh, cross entropy?

Here. What we only need to remember is the loss is the probability.

Normalised the probability at the location of the quantity.

So conscious is the first class. Uh, the loss is the minus is negative.

Log there upon the Wall Street.

So this is a loss. You only need to remember it is very simple that, uh, for softmax loss, it is.

Uh, it is, uh, target of probability, uh, minus log target the probability.

So, um, this is a softmax classifier.

And then there is a very complicated, uh, calculation for the, uh, gradient back propagation on the softmax loss.

What we need to memorise is not that complicated.

The proof is for the loss on the, uh.

Uh, logit. The, uh, uh, for for the gradient of the, uh, logit here is the partial derivative of loss over, uh, with respect to, uh, Z is normalised.

The. Uh. Probability minus.

Uh, walk out the vector. So let's go back to this example.

What is the loss? Uh, what is the gradient?

Um, the vector here. So it is this vector minus this vector.

So the first one, uh, they're putting the uh they're putting the one's three.

Uh minus one is uh minus uh they're putting the at seven.

So the uh, uh, gradient. Uh.

Is uh uh, their point. Uh uh uh uh uh seven for the first, uh, dimension.

So this is the conclusion. What we need to do, uh, during the exam is, uh, if you forget this, you do not need to spend,

uh, five minutes to prove what is, uh, the exact, uh, format of this gradient.

Uh, uh, it is not that easy.

It's very deep here to try to this model.

We use a gradient descent, which requires calculating the derivatives of the loss of each respect to what are the bias.

And here that we can see is uh, x is the input.

And then they have the intermediate representation Z which is uh linear combination of Italian and x.

And then this z goes to the softmax normalisation.

And they can reduce the final cross-entropy loss.

This is the softmax layer. And what we want to know is after we get the um.

Uh, normalise the similarity.

And we have already have the walk the vector and we can calculate the loss and how this loss and propagate to update the map.

So, uh, we need to know the gradient on on Z.

So the conclusion is very easy.

It's just to normalise the probability and minus uh one for the vector.

So we do not need to. Spend too much time like, uh, in our class.

Uh, explain how, uh, this, uh, grading is calculated, but the G exam, you do not have time, to be honest.

We skip this part. If you have interested, you can check it again.

And then, uh, we, uh, in the past, because of generative learning, we also have, uh, uh,

some calculation for convolutional layers, um, every exam, uh, how, uh, convolution layer transforms the feature into,

uh, uh, two dimensional, uh, output the feature map the process to use uh, uh, uh,

bank of filters issue in here as uh, f1 f2 to perform uh, with some across the input, uh, channels.

Uh, mathematically, uh, the uh, mapping, uh, the input, uh uh x uh, here uh x the input,

the channel is uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, the uh, dimension is uh, uh,

the input times h times the output is, uh, uh, um, channel output times, uh,

action w so one of the calculation is, uh, to, uh, calculate the, uh, uh, filter size.

So we have the input, we have the output, they have the dimension of the filter.

What's the filter size. And sometimes for the filter we have the bias term.

So keep in mind how how to uh calculate uh correct the uh filter size.

And then another question in the regarding how we calculate the, the receptive field.

So uh, if you uh, if the layer is not that deep, it is very easy.

You can just for example for this one here the receptive fairly the three.

And then you can expand this uh, uh receptive field by another layer.

Another layer. So three layer, you can uh enumerate uh uh receptive field.

It's not that complicated. And uh uh here is the.

The calculations are very size uh, in, uh, standard, uh, deep learning architecture.

Whereas uh three dimensional to match the depth of the input.

And for each output channel, we sum the convolution of the individual for the channel with their corresponding filter white width w here.

And the bias term, or at least also have a bias third here.

This ensures that every feature looks at the origin for the, uh, channels,

but simultaneously to extract the, uh, complicated, uh, complex cross channel features.

And here is how we calculated the size.

And uh, to, uh, calculate the, uh, receptive field, uh, correctly, there are uh, uh,

some specific problems, like, uh, the strength for the, uh, uh, convolution, uh, filter.

And there are also polling operators and offices, uh, uh, operators.

So uh, increase, uh, receptive, fair. And uh, uh, you can.

Um, during the calculation in order to explicitly, uh, consider above this.

And then after the basics of, uh, geometrical learning, we have, uh.

Uh, text generation, part, um, for the text generation, uh, language models,

uh, categorised by their architectural flow and their training objectives.

And we have an encoder only like method of like a Bert.

And then we also have encoder decoder models like T5. And uh we also have uh decoder on there, models like GPT uh, which are autoregressive.

So, uh, Bert is a method of the, um, mask of the mask of the partition that the for, uh, you can put the sentence, the, uh, put a mask.

Uh, for example, here is, uh, Pittsburgh. And, uh, Bert predict this, uh, mask of the word and the train, the model.

So this is, uh, training objective of Bert and for T5, uh, the which include the encoder and decoder framework,

the encoder process, the first sequence, and, uh, decoder generates the target for English translation in this example.

And uh, uh, our main focus in the text generation is the autoregressive, uh, uh, training method, uh, which is uh, uh, causal language model.

Uh, the uh, probability of the sequence is the product of each token conditioned on or uh, preceding uh, tokens.

Uh, the model predicts the next the word uh. So this is the training difference between Bert and, uh, T5 and, uh.

Uh. Here.

Um, we give the example of, uh, uh, gpt2, uh, framework.

And uh, uh, each block consists of a of self-attention and, uh, multi-layer perception, uh, linked by the residual connection and layer normalisation.

So, um, before processing tax, uh, through neither masters of data raw space into physical units.

Uh, since many, uh, words uh, not to you, uh, modus uh, best vocabulary they, um, updating to uh, uh, numerical IDs.

So the embedding table lookup this, convert the text into, uh, higher dimensional vectors, uh, that the transform can actually manipulate.

And, uh, we have we consider three different, uh, kind of, uh, tokenization for word level tokenization.

Uh, the, uh. Uh, man limitation is, uh, out of vocabulary.

Uh, foreign. And, uh, if we increase, uh, larger vocabularies.

Uh, uh, we were reduced.

So the issues by the significantly increase the number of parameters and then we count,

we also consider another solution, character level, uh, tokenization.

Uh, we treat every letter and, uh, as a token.

Uh, but this word is also a very small vocabulary, and it has significant drawbacks.

And this sentence becomes much longer sequence for the model to process.

And the invasion of characters do not carry semantic meanings on their own.

Um, more than uh, and I use, I try and use uh, uh, subword level, uh, tokenization to find the, uh, middle ground.

So the core is to, uh, moderate and vocabulary size, uh, with no all the tokens.

And so we will have, uh, question regarding, uh, different tokenization method.

I remember it's, uh, similar to the question. And then, uh, the transformer latched on to my modules, the modified attention and the feedforward.

The network attention is, uh, calculated.

I use the query key value with, uh, formula here, formula here, and, uh, uh, feedforward and network then applies a linear transformation.

Followed by a ReLU activation. So in the attention, we have the square here because, uh, okay.

Uh, the multiply by multiplication of a qk, uh, uh, divided by the, uh, square of square root of uh dimension feature dimension.

The reason why we have, uh, this normalisation, uh, is, uh, without it, the dot product QK can go very large, pushing the softmax into regions.

The extremely small gradient scaling reduces this vanishing gradient problem.

And, uh, keeping the, uh, trend in post as a stable.

So this will be answering the question.

Uh, we need to understand why we have, uh.

Uh. Um. Square root of, uh.

The here and then in the decoder. Only vum work with must have prevents the model from looking into the future.

This is achieved by masking the right side of the attention matrix metrics before the softmax operation.

Typically by setting the values to infinity here.

This ensures that at any point, the uh model can only attend to tokens that, uh, appeared uh uh earlier in the sequence.

Uh, just that be the alpha generation. We use the heavy caching, uh, during the autoregressive process.

Uh, the key and the values for previous tokens are stored in, uh, memory, rather than being recomputed, uh, at every step.

This turns, uh, uh, quadratic uh computation into a more efficient process, focusing only on the new query token being generated.

So for heavy cache, uh, the catch key and the value.

But we do not catch, uh, query. So, uh, we need to understand, uh, what is the catch?

And this is also very important than, uh, interview question when you look for a job, uh, the journey of, uh, um, um, model involves three states,

which include a pre-training on massive raw text to provide, uh, for broad knowledge and secondly,

to supervise the fine tuning these, uh, model to follow instructions.

Finally, it is, uh, reinforced learning use uh, uh preference data to align the model with human expectation.

And during training, the model acts the learner and the, uh, prefix to predict the next token in the conscious data, uh, during, uh, sampling.

The uh, uh predictor generalised uh token, which is exactly the package into the model,

uh, the part of the input and the for next step, allowing to generate a long form.

Here, uh, another concept is, uh, teacher forcing, um, the to stabilise the, uh, training.

We use the teacher first thing instead of, uh, feeding the model to, um, uh, predictions.

According to, uh, itself, we always condition on the next.

The prediction on the furniture is the preceding word. The query is, uh, to minimise, uh, cross the entropy loss between the, uh, models.

Uh, output, uh, distribution under the hot and cold encoded the target.

So don't training. We have the truth. We do not need to calculate loss.

Um, based on the, uh, sequence of prediction, we only need to compare with the quantity used for each, uh, word.

And but during testing, uh, that there is no teacher, uh, the model must, uh, sample from its own predicted distribution to to choose the next word.

It can as our picks the most likely word or sample according to the probability to introduce a uh uh uh varieties.

So the self lost continues until the end token uh, is generated.

This is the most important concept, the included in the text generation.

And then, uh, for efficient fine tuning, we use Alora.

And uh, instead of updating all the massive opportunity uh, with matrix W, we freeze it and then choose some more lower rank, the matrix.

Uh, here, uh, we need to understand what is, uh, uh, parameter number.

What's the rank of the, uh, uh, Laura, uh, set of branch?

And what is, uh, how we initialise it?

So, you know, able to keep up to the, uh, keeps the prediction.

Same as before when we initialise this, Laura branch is, uh, uh,

for in layer A is normalised by a Gaussian, and the B is zero because the after because of when p zero.

There is nothing up to, uh, the original uh, network at the beginning.

Uh, after the text generation, we have introduced a V, and, uh.

Um, we assume our data is generated from, uh, unsub.

Uh, um, uh, observed in the vector Z, for example, X is the image of, uh, face here.

Uh, Z represent attributes of like, uh, expression age.

If you keep the model manageable, we assume that a simple prior for the tabulated, uh, Gaussian distribution.

To train this model, we start with the call maximum likelihood and trying to maximise the X using the bias law.

We can express this as, uh, this here.

So here we use the best raw and uh, most straightforward uh, is we swap this term here with this one which is the standard best, uh formulation.

And then we for X is swap for the uh, picked uh, the conditional x and the x.

Uh, we can have this, uh, formulation and uh, uh, where the numerator, uh, the, uh, the decoder and the prior is easy to define the denominator here.

Uh, the true, uh, posterior is impossible to compute, uh, directly, uh, because there is no close for,

uh, way to calculate, uh, exactly which Latin of rivals to produce a specific image.

Uh, okay. So in our example, we were, um, have the QR question, uh, how we represent, uh, PC and, uh,

why it is not, uh, uh, why it is impossible to compute that directly, something like that.

So we need to understand the here.

Um. And then. What we are doing is we have, uh, approximate uh, solution.

We introduced uh Q uh phi as the conditional x, which is uh, encoder D here.

So, um, now we can we replace this intractable posterior with, uh, tractable, uh, variational distribution.

This is the solution. And, uh, how does, uh, neural network output a distribution?

Uh, instead of predictor Z directly, the encoders output, uh, mean and the, uh, standard deviation of, uh, Gaussian distribution.

The decoder then samples from this distribution to reconstruct the data.

So this is, uh, this Max is, uh, sampling.

Um, it turns tractable. And we start from, um, base rules, uh, in log form here.

Uh, evidence of lower bonding is, uh, important, uh, concept.

So, uh, we include, uh, in the exam and, uh, this is the, uh, the standard form of, uh, best and, uh.

Uh, what we are doing here is we multiply numerator, numerator and denominator by the q phi, uh, the conditional x.

And then we have uh, now we can rearrange uh, it into interpretable terms here.

Um, we submitted the log turns into a sum of uh, first one user, it's interaction.

And the second one is uh uh uh, prior regulation.

And this last one is a gap between operators, uh, approximate and the true posterior.

Uh, this term here is always larger than zero.

So this is the reason why we, uh, uh, have, uh, lower bound.

We tested the expectation here, and, uh, we dropped the non-negative, uh, uh, term and get the, uh, evidence.

The lower bound, um. This?

Is that the third? Uh. Um. Uh, proof of the evidence.

Lower bound. And this, uh, equation lets us express the, uh, log p x uh, into three pieces.

Uh, first one is the reconstruction term. Uh, this is, uh uh.

Uh, lost. Let's do the image image level reconstruction.

And then second, that is a character that, uh, compares uh, encoder distribution to the criteria and uh,

character that uh, compares the encoder to the true, uh, posterior.

Uh. So we were also near you that you clearly understand.

Oh, this is a story time. What's the, uh, meaning of those three terms?

This page is also included in the exam.

And, uh, that's how reconstruction and then, uh, prior regularisation.

And the last one is uh, posterior approximation and uh, it is uh, care divergences last zero zero.

So we have the lower bound of our uh via training objective.

So, uh, this is something a little bit complicated.

Uh, try to put some time to understand and, uh, um, do some proof by yourself before the exam.

Okay. This is about the V, and then we have, uh, we studied the classic uh, uh, game minimax objective here.

Um. Uh, we interpret this, uh, objective by first, uh, fixed uh, generator, fixed fixed G and focussed on the discriminator.

Uh, the network, uh, once the X, the discriminator, uh,

predict the one for real data and the predictor zero d generated uh, data discriminator, uh, generate.

Uh, it is, uh, uh, letting the coder the generated uh, image and the discriminator here.

And then we wish the discriminator, uh, to output the zero for fake data, which is, uh, exactly a binary classification task.

And again, training, uh.

Uh, our ton of, uh, chances is, uh, uh, the training is, uh, iteration between the training of generator and, uh, discriminator.

Uh, and then after we, uh, fix, uh, the discriminator, what we are doing is, uh, the, uh, trying the generator so that the generator many learn.

So the fact that, uh, turn involved is here, and the pushing the generator distribution, uh, towards the real while here,

the generator G tries to for at least from another D so that the affect samples are, uh, classified as, uh, rare.

And, uh, for this, uh, different model, uh, the for the processes, uh, act of adding noise.

And as a reverse, the process is, uh, the, uh, generative, uh, act of denoising and the in the forward, uh,

process of identifying the transition distribution channels and distribution here as a Gaussian distribution,

uh, it is expressed uh, as this from, uh, from lashing.

And it is. It is also included in the exam.

So to make the, uh, notation clear, we have uh, uh, we let, uh, our 40 equals to one minus by 30.

This allows us to rewrite the this distribution as this equation.

And initially we define our processes through, uh, step by step transition.

However, to train efficiently, we want to know if we can jump directly, uh, from our clean image to any noise, uh, states.

And before we, um, do the calculation, uh, we reviewed a foundation, uh, property of a Gaussian.

If we have two independent variables, uh, some of them from Gaussian, they are assigned also a Gaussian.

So this is what we used, uh, during our calculation.

And uh, this is also important that we have some calculation related to uh, uh, forward a jump.

Yeah. Um.

Uh, let's test this with the two steps of our forward a process and use the reparameterization trick.

We can express x1 as a function of x zero and the some noise that has no zero.

And then we express x2 as a function of x1 and another noise of no one.

And by substituting the expression for x1 into the equation over x2, we get a vector relationship between x t on x1.

As a result to. Is like this.

So, uh, the, uh, uh, uses, uh, property of a Gaussian distribution.

We can successfully merge two Gaussian steps into one.

So this is the important. Uh uh.

Case, two stem case. And then we can extend this logic recursively for any steps T by extending the turn,

we find that the mean suggests by the product of all previous values, and the variance goes accordingly.

This leads to uh, the general form formula.

To simplify this, we define, um. Um.

Um. After a year of defiance, uh, um, apathy with the bar here.

With the bar. So, uh, this gives, uh, us, uh, director for the jump distribution.

This is very powerful because, uh, it shows that even after many steps, the distribution.

Uh, of XT conditional on x0 remains a simple Gaussian.

So, uh, this is a very important concept. Again different model.

So this is also included in the exam. And uh, try to uh, do some of the inference, uh, by yourself, for example, uh, for the case.

What, uh, what is the final, uh, formulation?

And uh, for the general case, what is the final formulation?

Yeah. Uh, to.

Uh, this, uh, for jump means that, uh, given, uh, current data x0,

we can sample XT at any arbitrary time step in a single step without needing to iteratively through, uh, Markov chain.

And then um, the for diffusion, we have an important and uh, uh, uh method named the Latin diffusion,

which is the operator not in the image space, but in the latent space, which can accelerate the, uh.

Uh, training and, uh. Ya.

This is also include a very in the single choice question.

And then we have the uh generative uh to them uh, and uh,

we have we need respect that generation thorough can have high quality samples faster sampling model compared converged uh and diversity.

But uh, gang diffusion and the way most of them are only with two, uh, properties.

And then, uh, after the generation image generation, we have uh, uh, audio generation, um, we have different format of audio generation.

For example, waveform here is a sequence of numbers over time.

This is what the microphones are. Record, uh, pressure change in the air.

But the fallen in this representation is a too large. And, uh, modelling directly is a hard, uh, if we zoom in and we see the rapid,

uh uh uh, if we zoom in here, we can see the, uh, rapid, uh, uh, oscillations.

And the those tiny fluctuations do not, uh, correspond directly to the meaning of, uh, or uh, uh, for, uh, for funnies.

So, uh, learning from, uh, raw FC is inefficient because the structure of, uh, hidden this much motivate us better, uh, representations.

And instead we transform audio into a spectrogram.

This tells us how much energy is listed at, uh, each frequency over time.

Uh, let's look at the knowledge and look at, like, uh, image and, uh,

deep learning, uh, are very good at the, uh, learning in the image from the image.

This is, uh, why most, uh, early in your, uh, TTS models predict the spectrum instead of landforms.

And we also, uh, mention about, uh, uh, voice cloning.

Um, voice cloning is, uh, achieved by modify, uh, standard, uh, speech system either into, uh, to incorporate the speaker embedding.

Uh, speaker embedding is, uh, to map different voice into a cluster here.

Speaker encoder is to map different a voice into a cluster, the latent space.

And, uh. Um, voice cloning is something I can, uh, reproduce the satire or the, uh, uh,

information not related to the content that they speak, but the the way we speak.

So this is, uh, uh, some unique set, uh, concept about, uh, voice cloning.

And then we have, uh, 3D generation.

We need to understand these, uh, different 3D representations, for example, uh, 3D, uh, uh, point cloud and the point of cloud,

uh, formulation, uh formulation and permutation invariant and uh, order of the points done to change the shape.

And for the point cloud it lacks, uh. Uh, topological meshing and, uh, can be noisy when captured from real world of scans.

And then we have the, uh, the mesh and mesh, uh, are defined by vertices, edges and the phases.

And the messed up formulation, uh,

are not formulation of the environment and the connection connections between the vertices that defines the geometry.

And, uh. This is, uh, probably a mess.

And then, uh, we also have voxels, um, which, uh, securitise, uh, 3D shape into your, uh, regular grid, like the 3D pixels.

Uh, it is easy, but, uh, uh, computationally expensive.

Uh, we also have, uh, parametric surface, for example, uh uh, uh, knobs for steady modelling.

And uh, we also have uh, implicit function which defines the surface of the zero cost of uh, uh, mathematical,

uh, feared, for example, in here for the SDF, the network predicts the distance to the nearest, uh, surface.

The one values larger than zero.

Uh, outside the object smaller than zero are inside the object.

And, uh, if you turn the SDF back into the mesh, we use, uh, uh, matching coop.

And then, um, we also have other ones, the 3D representation nerf uh, uh, which is uh, which use uh, uh,

implicit function to model how light, uh, moves through the space instead of, uh, uh, sorry, the surface, uh, nerf uh, predicts the density.

Uh, here, sigma is the density and the colour for any point, the x you the from any direction D.

So the input output, we need to understand what's the input output.

And uh, by a sampling of points across our camera, the model can't render, uh,

highly detailed of photorealistic, uh, views of these, uh, uh, comments or reflections.

And you get the colour of, uh, single, uh, pixel, um, nerf.

We use, uh, what volumetric rendering it, uh, accumulates colour, uh, long array using, um,

transmittance function t here is the, uh, transmittance which tracks how much light is blocked by occlusions.

Uh Z to traverse towards the camera. And the word love?

Uh, hardly. Uh, qualities. They are slow, so cautious.

Batting. Replace the, uh, neural network with the millions of Gaussian.

That's already Gaussian primitives. It's Gaussian has the mean position, colour variance and, uh, opacity.

Um, because we do not need to backpropagate this MLP during rendering.

Um, 3D Gaussian splatting allows real time interaction, uh, rendering in 3D.

Uh, Gaussians writing is similar to alpha blending.

The final uh colour is the width of the colour of our Gaussian overlap, the uh uh, overlapping uh pixel order by the distance to from the image plane.

Uh, to summarise that to uh, nerf requires a continuous entropy allow ray to find the density on the colour and the 3D Gaussian splatting.

Uh, blender. Uh, this creates a set of Gaussian primitives.

Uh.

Uh, Nerf are often better at, uh, representing complex lighting, uh, whereas 3D Gaussian splatting is the winner for speed and, uh, memory efficiency.

Uh, this is a concept that will be also included in the first part of the, uh, uh, single choice question.

So we need to understand the concept, the final, uh, 3D uh, topic, uh, is the 3D generation is uh, uh,

best on SDF, as this allows us to use a powerful 2D different model, uh, to guide the creation of a 3D object.

Uh, we render, uh, 2D view of the 3D model and add noise, and then use the 2D model to score, uh,

2D to 3D model the score to tell us how to update, uh, 3D with to match, uh, text prompt here.

And then finally we have the video generation part. A video is simply a sequence of a image order in time.

And, uh, we represent this are the 40 tensor, uh, time times, channel times, and the width.

And the video generation is, uh, challenges of, uh, of solving for 2D plus time.

Uh, and to maintain, uh, temporal consistency, models must, uh,

understand how pixels to move between friends uh, optical flow of provides uh, displacement of feared uh,

between friends and it tells us the horizontal and vertical momentum for every pixel,

allowing the model to predict where a specific feature, uh, will be, uh, in the next, uh, instant.

And the mobile, modern, uh, video generation use the diffusion transformer.

Traditional bi directional attention has a latency that just gets, uh, quadratically with the video length.

Make it slow for a long clip. By using causal attention, the initial waiting time become, uh, neglectful and, uh.

Allowing for efficient and autoregressive videos inside that the funnel depend on the, uh, total length of the video.

And that's all for the, uh, uh, preparation for the exam.

And, uh, in the, uh, uh, in our teaching, we introduce a lot of research paper, uh, including my own research or the, uh, public research.

We do not need to. We were not covered.

This, uh, you know, the exam is just, uh, some introduction, uh, to you about, uh, what is, uh, research looks like on the.